The last of the eight categories is quality management.
This is the activity to ensure that the project
deliverables meet quality expectations, and let's just see how we'll do that.
Quality can sound a little fuzzy.
The other seven categories were a little more succinct and quantifiable.
Quality is always one of those slippery,
fuzzier things to get a handle on,
but you'll find on the next slide that it is actually quite easy.
But you'll find, on the following slides, that it's not really all that hard.
I'll show you the secret.
Now we want to do quality management to ensure that
you deliver what the customer wants, when they want it,
and within the project parameters.
Now remember, the best quality is planned for and not inspected afterward.
Many times in the old fashion quality processes you design and
build and at the end you test for quality.
And, as you can see, throughout these modules we talk a lot about planning,
process, planning,
and process so when we finally do begin the project and start
moving forward we have all the elements in place to,
in fact, ensure a quality outcome.
Now let's take a look at some quality management processes on the next slide,
and you're going to be a bit surprised of what I'm going to show you.
Let's see what it is.
Question,
what are the processes and artifacts that your project will
use to ensure the greatest quality of the deliverables and
meet customer expectations?
Okay, this is real simple.
Just do what I've been telling you to do for this entire module.
If you design, plan,
and develop the project control processes we
discussed as shown here on the slide,
rest assured your project outcomes will have great quality.
Okay,
here are a few more tips in the next slide I'd like to
share with you to improve quality.
Here's a sample of some simple yet very powerful
techniques that I use every day with my teams.
Okay, the first one, checklists, checklists, checklists, checklists.
I could have millions of these.
I love them.
They are very helpful, simple.
Maybe they're only a page long even at that.
For example, how about a desk side checklist for unit testing of a screen?
How about a checklist of things to do before you
check source code back into TFS, for example?
How about a checklist to make sure you've tested everything in terms of you've
gone through the specs and you've checked everything off?
You can never have enough checklists.
It's so easy to forget things, and so we use lots and lots of checklists.
It greatly improves quality.
Next, templates.
I love templates, spreadsheet template, Microsoft Project template,
MS Word template,
so it's the document that has everything in it that you're usually
used to using that you can reuse over and over.
Maybe it's a new requirement request.
Maybe it's a project definition document like we
talked about earlier in this class.
All sorts of templates can be reused.
Next is reviews, process by which software engineers will do code reviews.
So, do you have them once a week?
Do you have them after they've put something back in source control?
When do you have those reviews to look at stored
procedures or code and things like that?
Regular reviews are great,
especially for new hires to make sure they're conforming
to your standards and best practices,
but even also the more senior people who sometimes might cut corners.
You never know, so you always want to do reviews.
Typically it's the, maybe the technical project manager doing them,
but as a PM you may require these to happen so you can ensure quality.
Standards.
Is there a standard way to do SQL?
Is there a standard way to do C#, JavaScript,
etc.? Are there common tools and standards that
your organization's going to use?
Pick the smallest set of tools to maximize functionality.
Also, enterprise architecture.
For example, there are probably API standards in your enterprise architecture.
Or how is it that you do certain things if it's a corporate environment?
You're going to have architecture that cuts across multiple projects
and multiple systems that are already in production.
You need to be aware of that architecture and how will your
project play within that overall landscape.
Audits are great too.
Audit might sound like a bad word, but they don't have to be bad.
It can be good.
We're driving for quality, remember.
So maybe you need an independent audit or inspection of a product or a process,
and how we do that sometimes is we might bring in an outside
vendor or consultant to do a quick review.
We might have them audit the way we do SQL or the way we write our code.
So audits are good.
They improve quality.
They raise people to a higher level.
Completion criteria.
How do you know when you are done with a task or a
project or a module or a chunk of work?
And we have a little saying in our company, are you done, or are you done, done?
Done usually means you think you're done programming or coding.
Done, done means that you've tested it, you've gone through your checklists,
it's in TFS, you've made a Q/A build, and it's perfect.
So come up with the completion criteria is for your organization.
Again, that's a checklist.
Business standards.
Are there any business standards you need to be compliant with,
such as HIPAA, PCI or SOX?
And there are many others as well.
So if you need to be compliant with those,
maybe you could come up with a checklist.
What does it mean to be SOX compliant?
Is your application SOX compliant?
Is it HIPAA compliant?
Is there a checklist you can go through?
So you want checklists, templates, reviews,
standards, maybe enterprise architecture,
audits, completion criteria,
and business standards all standardized so every developer or
analyst can follow along on all the same templates,
and all the PMs can follow along on all the same templates and checklists so
you have a standard way of doing things in your organization.
People understand what a review is or what a checklist is, and you can have much, much better quality.